---
title: "Chapter 4: POS tagging"
date: 2020-04-05T17:00:00+09:00
layout: single
toc: true
lang: en
sidebar: {nav: "sidebar_en"}
---

The script [download_alice.py](/data/download_alice.py) downloads the novel *Alice's Adventures in Wonderland* (written by Lewis Carroll) from [Project Gutenberg](https://www.gutenberg.org/), and store the content as a text file `alice.txt`
Apply a part-of-speech tagger to the text, and store the result in the file named `alice.txt.pos`.
Implement programs that receive the file `alice.txt.pos` and perform the jobs.

It may be a good idea to use [matplotlib](http://matplotlib.org/) or [Gnuplot](http://www.gnuplot.info/) for the problems 37, 38, and 39.

## 30. Reading the result
Implement a program that reads the result of part-of-speech tagging `alice.txt.pos`.
Here, represent a sentence as a list of mapping objects each of which associates a surface form, base form, part-of-speech tag with the keys `surface`, `base`, `pos`.
Use this representation in the rest of the problems.

## 31. Verbs
Extract surface forms of all verbs appearing in the text.

## 32. Base forms of verbs
Extrac base forms of all verbs appearing in the text.

## 33. A of B
Extract noun phrases in the form of "A of B", where A and B are nouns.

## 34. A B
Extract longest noun phrases that consist of consecutive nouns.

## 35. Frequency of words
Obtain the list of words and frequencies of their occurrences sorted by descending order of frequency.

## 36. Top-ten frequent words
Visualize the top-ten frequent words and their frequencies with a chart (e.g., bar chart).

## 37. Top-ten words co-occurring with 'cat'
Extract the list of words that co-occur with the word "cat". Visualize with a chart (e.g., bar chart) the top-ten words co-occurring with the word "cat" and their frequencies.

## 38. Histogram
Draw a histogram of word frequency ($x$-axis: frequency of occurrences of words in x-axiz; $y$-axis: the number of distinct words occurring $x$ times).

## 39. Zipf's law
Plot a log-log graph with the $x$ axis being rank order and the $y$ axis being frequency.
